# MERCOSUL CULTURAL

- In this research, we selected three important Brazilian newspapers that have high national circulation so that their political and media actions impact the formation of Public Opinion, in relation to various themes of national and international politics. The newspapers O globo, Folha de São Paulo and Estadão are among the main printed communication vehicles, which in recent decades have played important economic-political and socio-cultural aspects in Brazil. According to the Communication Verification Institute, which produces and measures data about the media world, it shows that, between 2016 and 2018, Folha de São Paulo is the vehicle with the largest national circulation in circulation areas, both printed and digital subscriptions. This, while the newspapers O Globo and Estadão occupy, respectively, second and third place.

- When investigating the political debates surrounding Mercosur Cultural, we selected a set of keywords, which organize and guide our research, in order to test the idea that Mercosur, as a multidimensional bloc whose areas of activity go beyond its economic aspects, has its cultural action made invisible by Brazilian mass media which, due to their neoliberal bias, articulate discourses. Therefore, in this research we selected nine key words that were divided into three large groups: cultural, secondary and tertiary. The cultural one consists of identifying whether in any report Mercosur is linked to cultural integration and was composed of the following key words: culture, identity, integration; The political key words highlight the political idea of ​​neoliberalism, related to the bloc, and encompass the idea of ​​authoritarianism, democracy and dictatorship; Finally, the economic group deals with the neoliberal economic notion linked to Mercosur and groups topics such as economy, trade and consumption. The words above will be organized and, consequently, divided based on the three major newspapers with national circulation: Globo, Folha de São Paulo and Estadão.
